The commander is wrapped in gavel and press will be underway right now in spite of the air raid alert.
Stride cone is apparently on the witness stand this morning.
The commander is the witness and perhaps he is stepped aside from the storm.
May the lead come, do I go?
As we begin another week of hearings and one with the chair hopes and believes may be the last week of the current hearings,
I again want to welcome our guests who have come to the committee room to observe a branch of their government in action
and to repeat the regulation which the committee adopted at the beginning of the hearings and has been forced to up
to the effect that there will be no audible manifestations of approval or disapproval of any kind at any time from our guests in the office.
The committee has instructed the chair and he has instructed the uniform members of the Capitol Police Force and the plain closements scattered to the audience.
That this rule is to be reinforced automatically and that they should escort from the room immediately, politely but firmly,
any of our guests who for reasons best known for themselves elect to violate the terms under which they enter the room,
namely to refrain entirely from audible manifestations of approval or disapproval.
Chair likes to announce he received a call from some of the matratis office this morning that Sunday matrati had returned from the west sometime during the night by plan
and they requested that we put on Mr. Carr because Sunday matrati apparently catching up on the seat that he missed due the night.
Mr. Carr is on a rescuer's witness, therefore Mr. Jenkins, I suggest you follow Mr. Carr is sworn at this time and we begin the interrogation to Frank Carr.
You stand in this one place.
You follow Mr. Hunter testimony about to give the truth to the whole truth and nothing but the truth so that you got either.
You may be seated. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen.
I desire this time to announce will, pleasure and with pride that my assistant Mr. Mama's crew of Memphis Tennessee will final the examination of Mr. Carr.
To glad to have Mr. Woffler, I welcome Mr. Cooke back to the committee table again.
He's been sworn with Mr. Cooke and you may begin first the direct examination and then the cross examination of Mr. Carr, a member of the committee staff.
Mr. Cooke, please.
State your name, please, for the record.
Francis P. Carr.
Mr. Carr, you hold what position with this committee.
Executive Director.
And you have since what date?
July 16, 1953.
Mr. Carr, since you are one of the original principles in this controversy, I think it's appropriate that you give us some overall idea of your qualifications and with particular reference to your educational background.
Now ask you if you are a college graduate.
Yes, sir. I was graduated from Brown University in 1939 with the Bachelor of Arts degree.
And what official training or education have you had?
I was graduated in 1942 from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Now, have you ever printed this alone?
No, sir. I haven't. I've met one immediately into the FBI following my graduation from law school.
You've never been admitted to bar in the state of your service.
Not yet.
When did you go to the FBI?
June 1, 1942.
And were you a member of the FBI continuously from 42 until you came with the committee?
Yes, I was.
Now Mr. Carr, state in a general sort of a way the type of work that you indeed did, one with the FBI with particular reference to your experience in connection with communist and communist front investigations.
Following my training as special agent here in Washington DC in a quantum field of Virginia, I was transferred about the country to several field offices.
When I was in Portland, Oregon, I began to work on investigation of communism all through that was in 1945.
In 1946, I spent most of the year in San Francisco.
I gained work on investigations of communism.
In 19 December, 1946, I was transferred to the New York Field of Asian New York City, where I was placed on the communist squad.
The investigations that I conducted and were conducted under the concern, the investigation of the communist party itself, communist party members,
communist front organizations and individuals alleged to be members of the communist party.
Until Mr. Carr brings these first again to the vote, a large part of your time to the work of investigating communism and communist front organizations.
I would say that I started the real intensive investigation when I arrived in the New York Field of Asian in 1946, December 46.
I was told that I was going to be there to say that from 1946 until you came with this committee, where your work was almost exclusively,
there are investigations and prosecution, communist and communist front organizations.
Yes, I think that they first said, when you came with this committee in July of 1963, that you hold any position, and you take a position with the FBI in New York.
Yes, I was supervisor of the security matter section, which dealt with communism.
And while there are other FBI agents under your control and supervision.
Yes, sir, large number.
A large number, sir.
Mr. Carr, what part is any of this you claim in the investigation and prosecution of what we know as the first three communist party leaders?
Well, in 1948, I was placed on special assignment to work with the United States Attorneyate in the Eastern District of New York, Southern District of New York, excuse me.
John FX McGoley, to prepare for the trial of the first string communist leaders, such leaders as Eugene Dennis, a Jack Stachel Henry Winston, John Gates, the barely worker editor and others.
Throughout the entire nine months trial before Judge Medina, I was assigned to now Judge McGoley as a technical advisor, along with another man, the 11 who went to trial were all convicted.
Eugene Bay, the chief investigator in the action with the prosecution of those 11 first string communist party leaders.
No, sir. I don't think there anybody could say that he was the chief investigator of the investigator in connection with the prosecution of any Smith Act case.
I think perhaps the credit has to go to teamwork between the FBI and the United States attorneys who prosecute the case.
Probably if any one person should have any credit, if the business to Hoover, because he first saw the danger of communism and had the FBI work investigating it.
Now before you commence the prosecution of these 11 first string communist party leaders, is it your testimony that you were almost exclusively engaged in the investigation of communists and communists for organizations?
That is, subsequent 1946.
Yes, sir.
Mr. Torrey, I believe you stated that you joined the subcommittee staff. You asked 16, 1953.
Yes, I said. Before that time, I had not been in Washington. I was in discussion during General Reves' testimony.
I arrived in Washington and was appointed on July 16th.
Will you say briefly the truth to me as exactly the director of the sheriff of the McCartney Committee?
Well, executive director of the pretty fancy title. Actually, I am the administrative chef, more or less, of the investigative staff.
Some people have called it chief investigator. I don't know whether that's correct name or not.
Will you speak with the committee or do you work with the committee?
Well, the first thing I did when I came with the committee was trying to find out what my new job was all about.
I spent a few weeks at the beginning trying to familiarize myself with some committee work.
I tried to find out what investigations the subcommittee had had in the past, what pending work it had, and what future work it had projected.
I spent a good deal of time interviewing and discussing the background with each individual investigator on the staff.
I believe that I spent some time with each individual, a clerical person, a person on the staff.
I also met many people here in Washington, including members of the committee. I met with the liaison people here in Washington, and generally tried to familiarize myself with what was going on.
I think that the time came with the committee as the committee started on its preliminary investigation of communist infiltration of the Army.
Yes, sir, I have.
And it was briefly just what work had been done.
Well, I would say about a week or possibly two weeks after I first came with the committee, I had conferences with Mr. Cohn and with Son of the McCartler.
I recall that Mr. Cohn told me that the subcommittee had done some preliminary work in connection with communist infiltration of the Army.
He said that they had some evidence that there had been infiltration of G2, the intelligence section of the Army.
He said that they had some indication that there was communist infiltration in two of the Army's agencies in the New York City area, the signal corps and the quarter master corps.
He also told me that he had received information from one fall crouch. That communist infiltration in the Army was not only likely but very probable.
He told me that he had, that's not he, I should correct myself on that, he told me that the staff had done some preliminary work in connection with the use of communist line or communist order works in the indoctrination material which was being used by the intelligence unit of the Army.
He probably told me other things, that's all I recall.
What the written data had been assembled concerning the investigation of the Army?
Well frankly sir, there wasn't too much written data that had been assembled. The preliminary investigation of the Army or the government printing office or of any other investigation with the subcommittee,
as soon as other subcommittees, there's a rather informal thing. Every investigator on the staff is at all times, certainly I hope they are at all times, trying to think of, make contacts concerning and develop information which will lead to future investigations and future hearings.
They had at that time information which Senator McCoffee had received to the effect that at what moment there were a large number of communist or alleged communist employees.
They had information, they had this crouch memorandum which is really a general outline of his estimate of what communist would like to do in the Army.
They had done some work concerning development of informants.
I know it's ambiguous but would you tell us when the executive session on communist infiltration of the Army remains?
Yes, the first executive session on infiltration of the Army was held on August 31st I believe, at least August 30th, 31st in New York City.
At that time, information had been developed to the point where the chairman thought that executive session should be held concerning the infiltration of the quarter master core in New York City, Brooklyn I believe more properly, the signal core for the photographic laboratory in Queens.
As a result of that, those hearings, two persons were suspended, one from the signal core and one from the quarter master core.
You know it was first session.
As I understand it, what not with relation with fourth month, what is it?
No, there were not relation with fourth month proper, however the signal core was involved in connection with the security guards at the signal core laboratories in Queens.
After this first session, I believe he stated August 31st, if the Senate's McCarthy manifest properly, they need determination that he would insist on calling members of the Army royal to screen board.
Yes, sir, he did. I think one about the second or third of September, Senator McCarthy publicly announced that he would have to look into the situation to determine who was responsible for allowing communists to still be employed by the government at this late date.
I believe that there were announcements in the papers.
This is a Washington Times telemetry by Willard Edwards on September 3rd in which he quotes Senator McCarthy as saying, until we find out who cleared these individuals for Army employment, despite the record of communist activities, we will not get to the bottom of this tragic situation and report McCarthy remarks.
Following that, there were at least 10 public announcements concerning the need for getting up the bottom of the situation.
Excuse me, sir.
There were several concerns concerning this early part of the investigation of the infiltration of the Army in the New York area.
Then, throughout the investigation of fourth moment, there were several other statements along the same lines by the chairman.
Did you participate in the breaking speech sessions concerning the investigation of the government pre-no?
Yes, sir, I did.
Were members of the FBI, the people were called for the committee.
Yes, there were. They were called in and testified quite frankly.
No objections on...
No objections were raised. No objections were raised at that time, though.
And as we see it, definitely, only a non-standard person is beginning around the first part of September.
Certainly, McCarthy manifests it publicly and repeated that perfectly.
All media pages, five, two, uh, or January, when you all around this time.
Yes, sir. As long as I've been with the subcommittee, Senator McCarthy has always expressed upon me that it's not so important
to... it's not only important to get rid of the individual communist by exposure and suspension,
but it's also important to find out who is responsible for leaving him in there, just like state.
When do you think Mr. Steve Smith was the first time?
Well, I was introduced to Mr. Stevens on September 8th, at that time it was no more than an introduction.
I again met him on September 21st, at the leave, at which time I was one of several in a discussion.
In LA, people in the first mid-June, I first met Mr. John Adams on September 28th, I believe,
that was following the hearing here in Mr. Holmes. He introduced himself to me as the man who was busy news apartment counselor.
Mr. Stevens had previously advised me that Mr. Adams would be taking over that job.
He was present where he not only taking over the meeting here, Mr. Stevens August,
but not till the second. Yes, I was. Mr. Cole was also present, yes, sir.
When you state, we... very briefly, as a circumstance, also, that meeting conversation between either you and you are Mr. Cole and Mr. Stevens.
Yes, sir. Yes. Mr. Cole and I went through the Secretary's office in the Pentagon for two reasons.
Mr. Cole was interested in the general pop-ret situation, and also the fact that there had been a more or less blackout order placed over the impersonal at Fort Marmer for bidding them to talk with some committee investigators.
I was primarily interested in the latter. We went to Mr. Stevens while we were there.
I explained to him that the had been a blackout order. Mr. Cole also took part in that. Mr. Stevens picked up the phone and called General Lawton at Fort Marmer.
He told General Lawton that he wanted this order rescinded during the course of this conversation, which we could hear from one half.
I recall Secretary Stevens saying to General Lawton, no, no, I didn't say that, not that, and then he went on.
As a result of the conversation, the order was rescinded. I always played with that, and the investigation proceeded at Marmer.
Also during that conversation, Mr. Cole and the Secretary discussed General Potridge.
Also during that conversation, the subject of Dave Shine came up.
It's my recollection, although I don't want to wear thickweeds of this, but it's my recollection.
That Secretary Stevens brought the subject up by stating that Mr. Shine was not going to receive a commission in the army, but he had a range that he would take care of Mr. Shine for the advantage of Mr. Stevens and the army by placing him in a
lay series, I would say, of intelligent schools to more or less observe them and report directly to the Secretary.
He said that there was a great luck in the army of personnel who knew anything about communism.
They thought that he could use Shine to his advantage in that way.
I thought that for Mr. Cohn's attitude and action that it was perfectly all right with him, I took no part in this case in the conversation.
The government said that you made no statement of one way or the other with reference to Shine.
And took no part in this phase of the conversation.
Now Mr. Cohn, I think at this point it will be well to state briefly the charge of those specifications as contained in the document which said it to the court the file on Guilford Hand been on Mr. Cohn's behalf.
I'm sure you can make you with and correct me if I'm wrong when I state that in substance.
Senate and court they you and Mr. Cohn have charged or suspect that Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams sought to hold the investigation in the army.
That was too young.
I saw two people having Shine as a quote hostage in court that Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams sought to hold blackmail.
Senate McCartney and members of the affair with threats that an unfaithful report would be issued at the lawyer's divorce of the years will not call on.
Now is that in substance this specification is contained in the document?
That's substance of our state, yes.
Now with reference to that in ISP for the sake of clarity to define your testimony to those specifications or charges.
And I will ask you with the first occasion on which even Mr. Stevens or Mr. Adams sought to stop the investigation of the army which is within your knowledge.
The first occasion to my knowledge was a suggestion by Mr. Adams on or about October 8 in New York City in room 1402 of the Courthouse.
Mr. Adams was present while we were interviewing witnesses concerning what moment.
He listened to much of the testimony of the state who was taken.
He said that the army had most of all of this information and that they would be able to handle the situation of court moments themselves.
He suggested that there was no need to continue beyond that week and that there was no need for any hearings.
What was really interesting?
Well, frankly sir, I thought it was a good tribe by Mr. Adams and that I didn't claim him for suggesting that.
I saw nothing improper. I thought it was a good tribe.
You know the trippy thing is the way of when it came to proper movies, she's acting on the station.
No sir, I know.
And when would the next team be able to follow Mr. Stevens over there to hold this game?
Well, the next to my knowledge was either the 13th of October.
We were launching the witness to Stevens at the merchants of the New York City about the block appeal from the Courthouse where we were holding hearings on court moments.
The secretary and Mr. Adams both at that time were doing what I thought was exploring and feeling out the chairman to see if they couldn't put a court the idea that they should not be any continuance of the executive hearings and no future hearings.
They made it very clear that they did not think that there was any necessity for future hearings.
They made it clear that they had most, if not all of the information that if the committee would give them what information they had, the committee had, with the information they the army had, they would be able to clean up the situation.
I recall that some of the McCoffee didn't buy this.
Later he told me that the main reason he didn't buy it was because the army had had this information to his knowledge for a long period of time and that they had not done anything about it.
If you say that these feelings are explored to an extent that was unsuccessful, you know, Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams.
That's obviously so.
The wind with the next key can only see that Mr. Stevens will miss Adams.
Within your personal knowledge, I think it's a hope in this issue.
October 21st, I believe the next one that I have personal knowledge of.
Mr. Stevens, what was the state of doing?
On that date, Mr. Adams, Mr. Conan, I flew to New York. We dined at Mr. Cones' apartment and we went to a price-pike that evening.
On that date, Mr. Adams stated that he wanted the hearings on the Fort Mama situation ended.
He thought that it would be helpful to him and to Mr. Stevens if we could drop these hearings.
He suggested that there had been a gain, he suggested I might say, that there had been enough in the way of hearings, there had been enough in the way of publicity concerning the hearings to.
Forced the Army to stop the hearings, excuse me, forced the Army to take action and therefore we could turn it over to them.
At this time, Mr. Adams also advised us that he was then, from then on, take over some of the control of the assignment of Mr. Shine who was to go into the Army.
He said that prior to that time of a Shine matter, as he turned it, was being held by a being handled by Army personnel.
But he now, as a representative of the Secretary, would take over that matter.
He stated that he was personally taken over in supervised the induction of Shine and the Army.
No, sorry, don't. I can only tell you what he said. He said that he, that up until this time, pushed an all-in-hand of the situation.
But from now on, he as a representative of the Secretary of the Army would have a say in it.
I don't recall him saying that he was supervised or anything like that.
So what handling was necessary to run after October 21 to a certain shine?
He didn't tell me. I had had no great interest in the matter.
I assumed, and it's an assumption on my part, I assumed that this was a reference to the fact that on October 2,
Secretary Stevens had said that he was going to let Shine go into the Army, do his training, and then use him by...